so Google actually recommends at least
15K budget for four to six weeks 15
gaming 15 minimum and they even say the
minimum budget yeah they even say
minimum budget interesting up to 50K so
that's a big range that starts at 15K
for just four to six six weeks
[Music]
GM GM everybody GM welcome back to the
BBC Mastery podcast in this episode
we're going to be talking about the Talk
of the Town which is demand gen
it is so everybody's talking about
demand gen of course Google did a lot of
announcements recently and they
announced that demand gen is taking over
Discovery and you I know you've been
testing with the man gen a bit over the
last few months you had access to the
closed beta right so yeah I think in
this episode we're going to be talking
about what the demand gen is what the
impact is on Discovery campaigns on your
whole Google out the Google ads account
as a whole and then maybe in the next
next episode we'll talk more about best
practices what's worked for you yeah but
now let's just talk about what it is
actually and how it's going to change
the landscape so
yeah what is demand gen and why is
everybody talking about it yeah so so
first of all I think it is less popular
or less groundbreaking than when we had
the pmax announcements so I've seen some
posts popping up on my LinkedIn timeline
about Dimension yeah but I think it it
isn't really as hyped as much right as
BMX because obviously PMX was about
search and shopping as well and imagine
is mainly focused on Mid and upper
funnel zooming in on display no sorry on
YouTube and Discovery it is replacing
Discovery yeah that wasn't really clear
in the beginning as well so after the
first couple of weeks somebody came came
in and they actually mentioned I think
it was the Google ads
liaison yeah I think it was her Jenny
Jenny I think it was Jenny saying that
it was it was actually going to replace
Discovery and that's when that's when it
got serious so yeah I have been
experimenting with Discovery a bit but
it isn't really impactful in my opinion
especially in the mid and upper funnel
region I am using it or have been using
it for remarketing purposes because it
is relatively cheap traffic and if you
are able to Target your your audiences
through discovery on remarketing yeah
there's some nice additional conversion
volume over there as well but yeah now
we have Dimension coming up as a
replacement for Discovery and it is now
in open beta for basically all of the
advertisers that want to test with it I
had access to the close beta for one of
my biggest clients fortunately so I've
been doubling around a bit and yeah it
is kind of groundbreaking in a way that
we we now see where Google is heading
towards so we now have BMX that's a
combination of all of the placements and
networks combined everything just in one
campaign and now we have another
combined all-in-one campaign for just
upper funnel and mid funnel that
combines Discovery and YouTube
placements no display
for whatever reason I don't really know
why they haven't included this way maybe
if I'm just thinking about Google's
perspective maybe they want to focus
more on YouTube shorts inventory and
discover inventory which is sort of
unsold maybe yeah maybe the Lesser less
popular placements yeah that's been one
of my theories as well yeah but yeah
maybe throwing in display could ramp up
the spend even more but maybe they will
they will do it in the future or it's a
really it's a decision they've already
made yeah so with Dimension we can
Target specific placements like YouTube
Shorts YouTube in streams YouTube home
page feeds I think but also the
discovery placements like Gmail the
Chrome Android app the home screen where
you scroll through which basically the
Discover function yeah how it's already
being sold through Discovery so there
might be interesting placements if you
do have the budget if you have the wish
to really work on your exposure but if I
go through the best practices and
through the pitch decks of Google it is
really really built for the bigger
advertisers yeah so Google actually
recommends at least 15K budget for four
to six weeks 15 gaming 15 minimum and
they even say the minimum budget yeah
they even a minimum budget interesting
up to 50K so that's a big range that
starts at 15K for just four to six six
weeks so that actually means that it
isn't really a suitable campaign type
for the lower end of The Advertiser so
if you're just starting out if you don't
have the budgets for Mid upper funnel at
all or if you're working with a
constraint budget you're not really well
you're not really set with demand gen I
think it's for the biggest advertises
only
and if you take a look at the minimum
budgets if you were to drive a Target
CPA or Target row as function then
Google is actually recommending to set a
budget of 15 times as high as your
efficient Target or Target CPA so let's
say you're doing you need to hit a
officially Target of 100 euros Target
CPA then you have to set a daily budget
of 1500 Euros that's already 40 45
000 Euros per month for your dimension
only campaign and I really do not know a
lot of advertisers that are able to push
those kinds of budgets yeah in just
Dimension alone because if you're
pushing those budgets then you are
already doing huge numbers in Search and
maybe shopping dedicated campaign types
at all so yeah I'm really curious about
the adoption of this product yeah and I
don't know if I'm jumping ahead now but
demand gen if you compare it to for
example pmax or video action campaigns
or even display where does it fit in the
in the funnel because it's not
necessarily for driven for performance
is it yeah Google is saying it can be a
Performance Based campaign I think you
can compare it to a video action
campaign so YouTube for Action if you're
still used to that term and YouTube for
Action tends to work if you multiply
your non-branded search or shopping CPA
by at least two times then it tends to
work in some verticals and I think you
can compare to to to that campaign type
and to that phase in the funnel so it's
really mid funnel not really a upper
funnel campaign type
but I think it's somewhere hovering
between upper funnel and mid funnel
where you try to well to reach potential
clients that haven't heard about your
brand that you're already trying to
Prime for one of your services or maybe
interesting categories subcategories
specific products yeah it's trying to to
generate demand for your future sales
growth essentially yeah yeah so not
necessarily bottom of funnel but then
mid and upper close to middle number
yeah I think it's a little bit more
performance orientated than really upper
funnel campaigns that are targeting
specific Target cpms or reach so it's a
little bit below your Die Hard branding
campaign and what's the difference then
you say the there's a difference there
is it because you also have more
performance driven bit strategies for
example yeah you have actually four five
bidding strategies you have maximize
clicks yeah I haven't seen if there's a
possibility to cap your CPC these but I
think there will be a capping option
then you have maximize conversions
maximize conversions by using a Target
CPA then you have maximize conversion
value or you have maximize convert
conversion value with a Target row as
efficient Target so essentially you have
five different bidding strategies and if
it were to be a really upper funnel
campaign
type then it wouldn't have the maximize
conversions and maximize conversion
value bidding strategy so that's already
pointing towards the fact that I think
this is hovering somewhat in between to
Upper funnel and mid funnel yeah yeah
and and in terms of placements so you
you already mentioned it's YouTube
YouTube home so in-stream YouTube stream
shorts shorts discover and Gmail and
it's just all automated all automated
you have the option of course to to
upload your own creatives yeah but I
think there will be an auto generated
option as well so the creative part is
really really really important
especially if you need to push these
kinds of budgets in order to see if you
are getting traction because Google is
saying 15K to 50K in four to six weeks
as a test budget as a test budget so if
you were to drive a test with this then
you would definitely want to invest in
your own Assets in your own images in
your own YouTube shorts so please stay
away from stock photos or your regular
business video on your about us page of
three minutes long so that's really not
not going to help you getting
performance in this campaign type
there's a whole list of best practices
already and things that you should do or
shouldn't do and we'll be sharing that
in a future episode so let's let's not
dive to to specific in that part but
yeah and are there any other
technicalities of the mansion that are
important to to know or understand yeah
there are a few new features that we
haven't seen prior to demand gen so we
have a new ads type in fact we have a
carousel ad yeah so if you want to
create a carousel ad that's possible
right now where you can basically swipe
through different yeah ads so to say
from left to right Google ads will make
sure that the ads will get product
advertised based on the amount of cards
you have so that's a nice little a new
feature you have as well you have the
possibility to create specific ad types
within the ad groups that you want to
create so if you want to create a video
a type you're able to do just that or a
carousel ad type you're you're able to
do just that inside of an ad group then
you have new audience targeting options
so this is the first campaign type where
we have seen the look-alike option which
is kind of cool yeah and kind of
interesting to see Google ads taking
this route and this is similar to meta
ads right we have I think we have both
done some meta ads a couple of years ago
when we try to do everything as a Google
ads specialist so it's kind of similar
to the audience expansion all these
expansion is kind of similar to
optimized targeting but they also have a
look-alike expansion percentage Yeah and
that's basically what Google ads is
mimicking right now you have the option
to to to expand your seat list by two
and a half percent five percent and ten
percent from narrow to really broad
since this is a really new function I
haven't really have any best practices
what kind of setting to choose still
have to test I think you still have to
test what actually works for you but I
think if you were to select optimize
targeting already then the algorithm is
going to expand to your audience
segments at all quite broadly yeah so
I'm really curious how much impact this
look-alike expansion is really going to
make yeah but it gives you a sensor
control yes it makes sense
yeah but it's it's nice maybe we we see
see a similar future a feature adopted
in PMX in the near future that wouldn't
be that would be sick yeah it wouldn't
surprise me yeah yeah and in terms of
targeting is it like pmax that it's open
targeting with signals or do are there
also other audience segments that you
can directly Target
it's similar to it's similar to your
Discovery thing okay so you actually
create an audience yourself yeah based
on your own segments and then you can
you can select if you want to expand on
that targeting using optimized targeting
and you and for your for your seat seat
list you can actually choose whether you
want to have it
create a look-alike segment based on
that yeah so yes more audience based
than signal based yeah but
Google is being Google so I don't know
what's true yeah I think I think Google
is using it using it as signals not
really a starting yeah at least that's
what I think yeah definitely if you're
going to select the option optimize
targeting yeah which is so it's also
Optimus targets also in demand gen yeah
and the look-alike segments both
interesting yeah so are the lookalike
segments then you I think you haven't
run them yet then you know in those in
that Dimension campaign no because I
wonder if that's an actual audience
segment that you can Target and then do
optimized targeting on the lookalikes or
if it's just instead of I think how it
works is basically you create a
look-alike expansion on your your
audience segment within your audience
audience segment itself yeah and then
you can choose whether or not to use
optimize targeting on the audience that
you have already created yeah so you can
go February broad if you want to if you
want to and I think that's that could be
the power of demand gen so if you are
looking for growth if you're really
looking for additional exposure and you
are somewhat looking at the performance
of your campaigns then yeah it might be
an interesting option to consider yeah
there's actually a great way to in
dimension which I'm kind of hyped about
to measure the uplifts so we have
several measurement protocols so to say
that can measure search lifts brand
lifts conversion lifts by using Yeah by
using different Frameworks so you can
actually see how Dimension impacts your
search campaign it's super interesting
brand lifts so are people looking for
your brand more frequently after you've
used Dimension and well what are your
conversion uplifts so are people
actually converting more is it driving
incremental convert versions since you
have started running Dimension so these
are really interesting models to use and
to leverage I think but
they are being based on what what data
points Google Google has so I think you
should take it with a big grain of salt
if you were to use these well lift
studies so to say a search brand the
conversion lift studies then I would
definitely pair that with your
third-party attribution tool and I think
if you are doing these kinds of budgets
then you should have already a third
third party attribution a tool in place
to properly see if well how your
campaigns are running and how everything
is being attributed towards your final
conversion yeah especially as you do
more inside of Google ads and you
because I think with the managing Google
is also trying to compete more with meta
like Facebook Instagram Tick Tock ads
etc etc and then I mean it's not
necessarily bad by itself if you do more
on the Google side but as you switch
more budget to shift more budget towards
one platform I think it becomes even
more important to analyze with a
third-party tool because otherwise they
have all the power and they say this is
the truth yeah and then you just have to
believe that it's true even though it's
not all which is not true no absolutely
not I think it's never never the the
truth no no because on the on the other
hand metas also going to say the exact
same thing yeah and if you if you add up
all of the conversions then you end up
by two three times as many conversions
that you actually exactly have inside of
your back end yep so you definitely need
an independent tool to look over well
the attribution of all of your campaigns
yeah yeah and is there any I don't know
if you if you know but speaking of
attribution is there data driven
attribution with other campaigns with
the manager yeah yeah yes yeah that's
pretty nice yeah yeah so data driven
attribution DDA is also Incorporated
within demand gen yeah I I still have to
see how it works with different kind of
conversion actions because what I have
seen from practice is if you were to use
offline conversion tracking by importing
close deals or qualified leads or
whatever data point that you want to
upload then I sense or have seen that
campaign types like display YouTube and
Discovery aren't really attributing
those types of conversions to themselves
and if you were to use a Google ads
attack specifically
that is just well that is Gtech based
then you start to see in well a lot more
conversions not only a few true
conversions but only but also while last
click conversions so I haven't compared
those two yeah but I think DDA works
best if you were to drive on the well
data the regular Gtech conversion action
yeah and not on OCT yeah so what I tend
to do is I tend to select if you were to
run an OCT then I were to select OCT
conversion actions as a primary
conversion action for my search campaign
for Legion SAS and for my upper funnel
mid funnel campaigns I tend to use a
Google tech based conversion action and
then just use different primary
conversions on campaign level yeah
campaign specific goals so you let the
algorithm optimize for different
conversion data so to say yeah yeah is
there anything else that goes into the
man gen that's new or
I think those are the points that are
because then yeah it's gonna take over
from Discovery this cover is going away
I think in the next few months it's
going to get rolled out and then
somewhere early 2024 I think Discovery
is going to get killed completely have
you read something about a migration
from Discovery to Dimension it's going
to be Auto migrated no you can opt in at
first maybe even select advertisers but
I think somewhere between now and
October so you can actually go and make
the switch and then the historical data
is going to be pulled over just like
smart shopping 2pmx exactly yeah yeah
and then somewhere in q1 pmax Discovery
is going away and then all campaigns are
going to be Auto migrated to the new
dimension think somewhere in q1
fun times ahead yeah yeah but so if
you're driving Discovery campaigns yeah
then you should really reconsider yeah
if you want to migrate to demand gender
because alone I I know a lot of accounts
and I know a lot of accounts that I
manage myself that have Discovery
campaigns enabled yeah but mainly focus
on remarketing on the Discover
placements and I think I'm not going to
migrate them to Dimension because it's
just a different different campaign type
yeah yeah what will you do then for the
remarketing switch to display in YouTube
I think yeah I think it's it's best to
to in those cases what I know for now is
to switch to a campaign specific type so
display remarketing YouTube remarketing
yeah for your remarketing places and
what do you personally think of the
mansion
outside of all the technicalities I
think it is nice to see where Google is
heading towards they're heading towards
a a more well all in all-in campaign
type sort of thing just like PMX so you
see where the future is going I think it
is a great campaign type for the bigger
advertisers that are really maxing out
on every Network already and they really
want to spend in order to well gain
additional exposure whenever possible
if you are a mid or low size Advertiser
I think Dimension isn't really suitable
for you right now that can change in the
future but if you take a look at the
budgets that Google is pushing right now
then I think it wouldn't make sense to
to allocate a 50 to 100 euro per day
Budget on Dimension I think it will be
way too way too low unless you can drive
really crazy amounts of conversion
volume through micro conversions for
example and if you're possible to 15x
your target CPA but I think for most
advertisers this isn't really suitable
it's meant for the the mature
advertisers that really want to want to
work on their well exposure already max
out performance and now what else can we
do and besides that I think you should
also be really mature in the creative
sides of things
so if you're going to leverage well
demand gen then you need to have a
really big library of Kick-Ass
professional creatives because you're
doing a lot of YouTube shorts you're
going to do a lot of well YouTube
in-stream placements and a lot of new
discover placements and they should
really be well on point really made
according to the well best practices
that Google is pushing for example the
ABCD framework of YouTube mobile first
really big bot well copy text placements
elements inside of your your videos for
example and I think only the bigger
Brands right now are able to
allocate budgets towards those kinds of
Investments yeah I personally have
trouble convincing smaller and even
mid-size advertisers to spend a few
thousand Euros to their creative part
and to create YouTube videos by hiring a
video agency or whatever so yeah I think
I think we have to see the adoption
where where it goes but I think you will
not see a lot of accounts with the
Mansion campaigns enabled yeah yeah
cool so what are you going to do next
because you've already ran the the test
in the closed beta yeah is that still
it's still running still running still
running what's next for for that test or
are you doing any anything specific well
right now we've set it up according to
the best practices that Google has
shared with us during the closed beta it
has been running for quite a while now I
think for seven or eight weeks already
so right now we're going to refine the
campaign and see where we can actually
grow but yeah we still have to see then
do this as a search lift and all those
studies Etc and I think if Google is
offering those lift studies search
Brands conversion live studies then that
also implies that it's not necessarily
focused towards conversion directly
because if it was then you would see the
Converses probably directly coming from
that campaign type but now it's much
more like
like for example with bumper ads I I
think bumper ads are much more upper
funnel on YouTube yeah but they also
offer those studies to sort of prove
like yeah even though it's working yeah
zero conversions from these campaigns
they're working because look at this
data yeah so I think if they also do
that with demand gen then that kind of
tells me that it's probably not going to
be one of your biggest conversion
campaigns but I don't know leading up to
up to that yeah that's always kind of
yeah and I really think I really think
that if you want to see if this works
for you as an Advertiser that you really
should work with third-party attribution
tool yeah I think you cannot really
trust the data inside of Google ads yeah
I think just like pmax Google attribute
a lot of conversions through DDA to meet
and upper funnel campaigns to basically
well pretend they're working and I think
in a lot in a lot of times they will be
working but I think that through the
truth will be that they will work
really less effectively than they
pretend to work yeah that's an
assumption I think you have to say that
for yourself and your own data but
that's that's my gut feeling right now
all right yeah yeah I think we can go on
and on about best practices but we will
do an additional episode about that yeah
there's a lot of a lot more to say about
bidding strategies creatives audience
targeting campaign campaign structure so
yeah I will dive into a specific episode
about demand gem best practices in the
future solo episode nice so stay tuned
for that cool all right thanks everybody
for listening to you and watching and
all that stuff don't forget to like And
subscribe leave a review and lastly
share this with a colleague or a friend
who might be interested in upscaling
their PPC game all right with big big
Pockets with big Pockets yeah for
exactly 15 to 50K per month all right
that's it for demand gen let's see what
the future is going to bring and yeah
it's always at least to me it's always
fun to see new campaign times we've
rolled out because because even though
like pmax whether you hate it or love it
it did bring like new energy into the
BBC world so I think this might do that
as well I hope so we'll see yeah all
right see you next time in the next
episode ciao
[Music]